<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2022 The Aalto Grades Developers

SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
-->

# Aalto Grades client

## Running for development

Install the necessary Node modules:
```
$ npm ci
```
Start the client:
```
$ npm start
```

When the client is starting, a browser window should automatically open to the
URL of the client, if not, you can manually open http://localhost:3005 to
access it.

In order to run the client in any meaningful capacity, you must also start the
server. Please see `server/README.md` for instructions on running the server.

## Building for production

Install the necessary Node modules:
```
$ npm ci
```
Build the client:
```
$ npm run build
```

The built client will be available in the `build` directory generated by the
build script.

## Tests

Install the necessary Node modules:
```
$ npm ci
```
Start the test runner:
```
$ npm test
```

## Translation utils

There are several scripts to aid in managing translations.

- `npm run trans-parse`: Parses the source code for missing translation keys in
  the locale translation files.
- `npm run trans-copy` and `npm run trans-rename`: The first command simply
  copies the English translation file to `client/translation.json`. The
  structure of this file can then be edited, and afterwards the second command
  can be used to apply the changes to the source code as well as the locale
  translation files. Note that you may not remove, add, or change any of the
  values themselves, this script is only useful for renaming keys.
- `npm run trans-merge`: Checks whether multiple translation keys are pointing
  to the same value in English and if so, asks the user to merge the keys to the
  same value. <!-- This may not be desirable in all cases -->
